# Study behavioral dynamics of fake/duplicate gaming accounts 

For the past one year, I have been working as a Data Science Research Assistant at Information Sciences Institute (ISI), under the guidance of Yolanda Gil and Fred Morstatter.

My multidisciplinary project was in collaboration with the Cyprus-basing video-gaming company, Wargaming.net, and PhD social scientists from USC’s School of Communication. It is here that I have had the opportunity to apply my knowledge of data mining concepts such as social network analysis and community detection to identify the social engagement between players. I leveraged the Python and R programming tools for this project.

Our focus was to analyze sybil(fake) game player accounts of a user and explore the social network implications of the same. Social scientists would benefit from a computational lens into exploring the network implications of these accounts to understand the reasons why people manage sybil accounts. After I calculated some metrics on the social network graphs of parent (originial) accounts and child (fake/duplicate) accounts, I noticed a decrease in the global clustering coefficient from after they create the child accounts. This means that an individual managing multiple account, actually connects with a diverse set of people from their duplicate account. The reason for this could be so that the user can access different groups and bolster their social status.

I further built a Random Forest machine learning classifier in Python, using the scikit-learn library, to detect and conduct behavioral analysis of sybil(fake) accounts. I discovered that the game Tank Level played an important part in determining whether a person creates a duplicate account or not. My multi-disciplinary team also published a paper about the same - “I’ll Play on My Smurf Account: Sybils and Network Measures" at the 70th Annual ICA Conference, Australia in May 2020.
